# bare-crypto

Cryptographic primitives for JavaScript.

```
npm i bare-crypto
```


# Usage

```javascript
const crypto = require('bare-crypto')

// Create a SHA256 hash
const hash = crypto.createHash('sha256')

// Update the hash with some data
hash.update('Hello, world!')

// Calculate the digest
const digest = hash.digest('hex')

console.log(digest)
```
# API

## **`crypto.createHash(algorithm, [opts])`**

Creates a new Hash instance with the specified algorithm and options.

* **`algorithm`**: (string) The name identifier of the hash algorithm to use.
    * Supported Algorithms : MD5, SHA1, SHA256, SHA512, BLAKE2B256
* **`opts`**: (object) Optional options for the hash function. 
* **Returns**: A new `Hash` instance.


## **`crypto.randomBytes(size, [cb])`**

Generates cryptographically secure random bytes.

* **`size`**: (number) The number of bytes to generate.
* **`cb`**: (function) An optional callback function that receives the generated bytes as a Buffer.
* **Returns**: (Buffer) If a callback is not provided, returns the generated bytes as a Buffer.

## **`crypto.randomFill(buffer, [offset], [size], [cb])`**

Fills a buffer with cryptographically secure random bytes.
* **`buffer`**: (Buffer, ArrayBuffer, or TypedArray) The buffer to fill.
* **`offset`**: (number) The starting offset within the buffer (defaults to 0).
* **`size`**: (number) The number of bytes to fill (defaults to `buffer.length - offset`).
* **`cb`**: (function) An optional callback function that receives the filled buffer.
* **Returns**: (Buffer, ArrayBuffer, or TypedArray) The filled buffer if a callback is not provided.
* **Throws**: (RangeError) If `offset` or `size` are out of bounds.

## **`crypto.randomFillSync(buffer, [offset], [size])`**

Fills a buffer with cryptographically secure random bytes synchronously.
* **`buffer`**: (Buffer, ArrayBuffer, or TypedArray) The buffer to fill.
* **`offset`**: (number) The starting offset within the buffer (defaults to 0).
* **`size`**: (number) The number of bytes to fill (defaults to `buffer.length - offset`).
* **Returns**: (Buffer, ArrayBuffer, or TypedArray) The filled buffer.
* **Throws**: (RangeError) If `offset` or `size` are out of bounds.


## **`crypto.constants.hash`**

An object containing the numeric constants for the supported hash algorithms.
* **Properties**: `MD5`, `SHA1`, `SHA256`, `SHA512`, `BLAKE2B256` (each holding the corresponding numeric value).

## License

Apache-2.0



